Measure your waist:
Stand in front of a mirror
and identify the narrowest
part of your torso,
usually around the same level
as your belly button.
Using a soft tape measure,
circle it around your abdomen.
Stand up straight,
and exhale gently as you
pull the tape so that it stays
taut against your body,
but make sure it is not
squeezing into your skin.
Look at the number at the point
where the zero end of the tape
intersects around your waist.
This is your waist measurement.
A waist size of greater
than 40 inches,
or 102 centimeters for men,
and a waist size of
greater than 35 inches,
or 88 centimeters for women,
is considered high risk.
A high number may indicate
that you have excess fat
in your abdominal area.